The Joe Rogan experience.
And here's a good Testament to how,
if you see past the of what divides us and labeling people,
this and that, you can always cuz we had a lot Jason flam and I,
you know, who's a board member at the innocence project.
We were overwhelmed by the outreach,
just from being on your show and talking to people. How can I help?
One thing you can do to help is always keep an open mind with regardless of who
you're dealing with. That's an easy way to help watch this.
I represent the chairman of Marvel entertainment.
His name is Ike Perlmutter billionaire.
Many times over he's happens to be closest friends with
Donald Trump way before he was president.
I could have used that as a way to separate myself from him, um,
to dismiss him. And I represented him.
I still do in this wild case where his DNA was stolen and he was accused of
something he didn't do.
And I Perlmutter at,
at one point said you're not paying enough attention to my case.
And it was because I was working on an exoneration case in Florida Clemente's
case actually. And he, he started following the case in the press.
And this isn't a guy that was like some criminal justice reform advocate.
He said it struck him that if I,
he didn't have you and Roy Black,
who's a famous criminal defense lawyer that was handling this civil case.
If I didn't have you and the resources to fight this,
I would've been accused of a crime. I didn't commit.
And it struck him that he had the resources to make a difference.
So he started making gifts in my honor to the innocence project,
substantial gifts. And I could have everybody around me said,
you're friends with this guy. You've become friends with him.
And he got enlightened to the point where in December,
I'm in Florida a week before the capital riot,
he called me and said, Josh, look
on to help get somebody executive clemency, if I can.
And I want you to figure out one person that you think is, you know, the most,
um, deserving candidate for it. And let's try to get it before the president.
I was in Florida, he was in Florida. He said,
you're gonna meet with the president and look,
a lot of people would've said to me, crazy, how could you meet with him? I said,
I don't care about any of that. I'm trying to save a life. So there's a,
a retired judge,
federal judge named John Gleason who started this project called the Holloway
project where his, he,
he started to realize exactly what you were about people on nonviolent
drug offenses, where there were just disproportionate sentences.
He had a list of people where, you know, to come up with one was difficult,
but I asked him Barry, she, um,
who's the one of the founders of the innocence project and various others.
Who do you think is if you had to gimme a list of 10?
So I got li and judge Gleason's client was this guy named Juad
MUA, who was in Baltimore,
the worst possible circumstances.
He gets a rested on this reverse dry sting.
They call it where he's asked to cobble together $20,000
and make a heroin purchase in New York and no drugs
ever existed. It was all a scheme. It was a setup by an informant.
He cobbles together. Five of the 20,000 and dollars goes to New York,
gets arrested on the spot and sentenced to life in prison. Jesus.
So I read about him. He's in jail for over 30 years. Oh Jesus. He has,
he has 52 degrees certificates.
Um, by all account, judge Gleason said, look,
he pointed out areas in the law that I had never considered. So I,
I could not get this guy off my mind. So I,
I finally put him forward as the person. So I,
I thought that I would submit paperwork and that it would go away.
So one week before the capital riots, I called me and said,
you're gonna come to dinner tonight with your wife
and you're gonna present the case to various people in the white house. Um,
at Mar Lago.
Now there are some Democrats left leaning or otherwise you're gonna go to Mar
Lago. And I would always say, hell yes, I'm going there.
I'm gonna try to save someone's life.
I with Ivanka Trump, Jared Kushner,
and just explained to them the case. And I gotta tell you,
she said, look, I really admire your work at the innocence project. Um,
think this is really noble. We, we think that this is a,
a great candidate for executive clemency. And it was like throughout the dinner,
it was on to the next person onto the next person.
So at one point there's a table like we're sitting at a table and
literally the distance you and I are from each other. There's two empty seats.
And it dawns on me that we're gonna be having dinner with the president and his
wife.
So at some point he walks out and everybody stands at Marla and clap.
When he comes out like Kim, Jon UN <laugh> was worse than that.
I have you ever seen the Kim Jon UN I, I saw you see the most recent one.
I saw the videos of it. Yeah. You see the recent one? No,
the recent one is mind blowing. He walks in, but we'll get to that in a minute.
Go ahead. So, so, so I said to Ike, do I have to stand and clap? And he goes,
if you want your part in and you do. So I stood and clapped.
So dinner is progressing and we're not talking. And fi you know,
we're not talking about this. So finally Ike says to me, look,
he wants to talk to you about this case now.
And he asked me a bunch of very pointed questions. So all of a sudden,
then I find myself at a table, my wife, myself, the president,
the first lady, Ike Perlmutter, and his wife. And he says, look, I hear,
I hear great things about you from, I tell me about the case. Tremendous,
tremendous things. I mean, it was so, oh, loony.
I remember him saying, I want ice cream, ice cream, two scoops.
I want two scoops, two scoops. He kept saying,
I don't know why that stuck with me. But he said, he told me this story.
He said, you know, do you, uh, do you think he's innocent?
I said, no, I don't think he's innocent. I'm executive clemency.
<laugh> I we're asking you to pardon in him. It was a non-violent drug offense.
I explained the whole case to him. And he said, I can't.
I had Jim brown come to me, the famous running back. And the guy was a murderer.
I couldn't do that. I only want non-violent drug offenses. And he said,
where is he gonna work? When he gets out? And I said, I've offered him a job.
He has this paralegal certificate that he got in jail. And he said,
you'll employ him. I'll employ him a week later.
So I meet with him. He tells me, call white house council.
And then a week later, the capital ride happens.
So everybody involved in this potential presidential part
is like, well, this is a rap. This isn't happening.
The last day of his presidency.
The last day I was at Ike's apartment with my wife and kids
and the phone rang. And he goes, it's the white house. Um,
he said, don't go anywhere.
Cuz we were walking out and he walked out and he said, the partum was just side.
And the, the, I don't know this man. I never met him.
My immediate release of, I started to weep openly. Um,
you know, it,
there's just no feeling that you can ever put into words
when you help restore another human being in that way. Now ju MOA.
Uh, and I met for the first time over FaceTime, you know,
four days later I flew his brother to meet him. He was in Colorado,
some awful facility in Colorado. I flew his brother out there.
He got out like that. The pardon happens. And then you're out.
He was flown back to Baltimore.
We met in the airport on FaceTime and we were immediately felt like bonded
like brothers.
He now works for me and his insights in the
five months, four or five months that he's been out his insights on cases,
a man that's spent 30, some odd year working on it became like a jail lawyer.
You realize that there are people,
human beings that have been forgotten that have so much potential.
If someone just cares. So now he's, you know,
it's not without problems.
He's working on getting his official out of jail paralegal certificate.
But you realize that if you just create connections and,
and allow, I don't wanna sound like some silly infomercial,
but I easily could have found reasons why not to try to enlighten someone whose
politics were different than mine and Ike prom was likely person.
But he's now I've found that if I, if you tap into it and,
and turn his mind on to the human suffering,
he now wants to start a criminal justice reform center that we're working on
together. That's amazing.
So I just feel like sometimes in a world where our politics are so divided,
it was one of the more bizarre meals I've ever had. I oops.
Scoops.
Scoops, but it was worth it, man. Wow.
Catch new episodes. The Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog Jr E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app. Oh two Spotify.
Now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.